# REPL Environment
2023-07-19

<!---
Tags:
[:misc]
-->

Today I created a REPL (Read, Evaluate, Print, Loop) environment for my [math language](https://gregjensen.dev/blog/2023/07/18/new-project.html)
that I am making in Java. I simply have a Repl class with a constructor and methods corresponding to each word
in the acronym. At first, there was only one parameter for the constructor, a `Scanner`. But when I wanted
to test the `read()` method, I realized I would have to create a mock `Scanner` class which is actually
impossible because `Scanner` is a `final` class. This made me rethink and ultimately decide to have the constructor
take in an `InputStream` instead. This is good because I can now test `read()` by supplying the `InputStream` with bytes, and
I can also still take input from `System.in` because it is a type of `InputStream`. This also makes it possible
to read code in from a file, since `InputStream` could have data from a file. The story is very similar
with the `print()` method. At first, I wanted to just print to `System.out`, but I couldn't test this, so I instead
abstracted the functionality into a `PrintStream` that is passed into the constructor. This is a very
clean solution and results in a very nice one-liner `main` function:
```java
public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
    new Repl(System.in,System.out).loop();
}
```
This experience shows how tests encourage you to depend on abstractions rather than concretions
and therefore writing cleaner code that adheres to the SOLID principles.